.TH clipf 1 
.SH NAME
clipf \- Personal finance manager with command line interface
.SH SYNOPSYS
.B clipf
[<conf_dir>]
.SH DESCRIPTION
Simple personal finance manager, allow to track Your incomes/expences
by accounts and hierarchical categories. Store all data in flat text
files.
.SH ARGUMENTS
.TP
<conf_dir>
Directory with configuration file and data files. Default to
~/.clipf/. If there is no such directory found at program startup, it
would be created and populated by default configuration and empty data
files.
.SH DEFINITIONS
.B account
- describe independent money storage, for which You want to track
remains and turnover.
.P
.B item
- describe categories of Your incomes/expences. Can be nested as
files/directories in file system.
.P
.B item code
- it is segmented unique identifier of item/item group. Period "."
in item code define nesting levels. Period at the end of item code
describe, that this item is group (have subling items).
.P
.B operation
- define single money transaction (income or expense).
.SH COMMANDS CONCERNING ITEMS
.TP
prod add [\-d] <item_code> <item_name>
Add new item. Type <item_name> in quotes, if it contain spaces.
.RS
.TP
.B \-d 
- define this item as income (default to expence).
.RE
.TP
prod rm <item_code_prefix>
Remove all items, which code starts with <item_code_prefix>. This
don't affect the operations list.
.TP
prod ls [<item_code>]
Show one level of item list - direct sublings of <item_code>. Default
to root level.
.TP
prod mv <old_item_code_prefix> <new_item_code_prefix>
Update all item codes, which starts with <old_item_code_prefix>,
replacing it to <new_item_code_prefix>. Item codes in operation list 
would be updated as well.
.SH COMMANDS CONCERNING OPERATIONS
.TP
op add [\-d <date>] [\-a <account>] <item_code> <amount> [<note>]
Add new operation
.RS
.TP
.B \-d
- override default operation date to <date>.
.TP
.B \-a
- override defaut operation account to <account>
.RE
.TP
op ls [<item_code_prefix>]
Show list of operations in current reporting period. If
<item_code_prefix> specified, list would be limited by the operations,
which item code starts with <item_code_prefix>.
.SH COMMANDS CONCERNING REPORTING
Reporting period is always between <date_from> and <date_to> global
options, which You set by
.B set
command.
.TP
rep prod [<item_code>]
Show turnover report for items (item groups), which are direct subling
of <item_code> (default to root). Turnover for item group is summ of
turnovers of all their nested items/groups.
.TP
rep acc
Show remains and turnovers for all accounts.
.SH OTHER COMMANDS
.TP
set <option> <value>
Set global option <option> value to <value>
Available options:
.RS
.TP 
.B date
- default date for new operations. Can be overriden by \-d option of
"op add".
.TP 
.B date_from
.TP
.B date_to
- reporting period for "op ls" and all "rep" subcommands.
.TP
.B acc
- default account for new operations. Can be overriden by \-a option
of "op add".
.TP
.B max_lines
- if number of lines in report output exceed this value, then "less"
would be used to show report output.
.RE
.TP
show [<option>]
Show current values of all global options or specified <option>.
.TP
calc <expression>
Embedded calculator. Evaluate numeric expression and print the result.
.SH FILES
.I ~/.clipf/
.RS
Default configuration directory. Contain
.I clipf.conf
configuration file, and
.I db/
subdirectory with data files.
.SH AUTHOR
Denis Galtsev <galtsevdv@gmail.com>
.SH SEE ALSO
Program site at: http://code.google.com/p/clipf/
